[Hubs] Add sovereign cloud support (#2072)
microsoft/finops-toolkit: docs-mslearn/toolkit/hubs/deploy-sovereign.md

Reviewer: I would generally argue we should not need this doc. It'll be difficult for anyone to apply this given they need to go into the repo and do manual compilation. If we want to solve the problems here, let's just solve the problems and rely on a single, global deployment doc. This isn't complete, which will lead to errors.

---
title: How to deploy FinOps hubs to sovereign clouds
description: This article explains how to deploy FinOps hubs to sovereign Azure clouds, including US Government and China, and other sovereign environments.
author: msbrett
ms.author: brettwil
ms.date: 03/27/2026
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: finops
ms.subservice: finops-toolkit
ms.reviewer: brettwil
#customer intent: As a FinOps practitioner deploying to a sovereign cloud, I want to understand what additional steps are needed so I can successfully deploy FinOps hubs.
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable heading-increment MD024 -->

# How to deploy FinOps hubs to sovereign clouds

> This article explains how to deploy FinOps hubs to sovereign Azure clouds, including Azure US Government, Azure China (21Vianet), and other sovereign environments. Bicep's `environment()` function compiles to an ARM runtime expression that resolves in the target cloud, so templates built on any workstation deploy correctly to any cloud. No cross-compilation is needed. This article helps you:

Reviewer: Aligning to official terms...
```suggestion
This article explains how to deploy FinOps hubs to [Microsoft Sovereign Clouds](/industry/sovereign-cloud/overview/microsoft-sovereign-cloud), including Azure Government, Azure China, and other sovereign environments. Bicep's `environment()` function compiles to an ARM runtime expression that resolves in the target cloud, so templates built on any workstation deploy correctly to any cloud. No cross-compilation is needed. This article helps you:
```

> This article explains how to deploy FinOps hubs to sovereign Azure clouds, including Azure US Government, Azure China (21Vianet), and other sovereign environments. Bicep's `environment()` function compiles to an ARM runtime expression that resolves in the target cloud, so templates built on any workstation deploy correctly to any cloud. No cross-compilation is needed. This article helps you:

Reviewer: Given this is end user documentation, I don't think we need to call out the Bicep caveat.

  - [Role Based Access Control Administrator](/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#role-based-access-control-administrator) to configure managed identity.
  - For least-privileged access, see [template details](template.md#prerequisites).
- Bicep CLI pre-installed on the deployment workstation ([installation guide](/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/install)).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure CLI normally downloads the Bicep CLI on first use, but this requires internet access. For sovereign environments without internet access, manually install the Bicep binary before deploying. See [Install Bicep tools](/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/install).

<br>

## Supported clouds

FinOps hubs support deployment to all standard Azure clouds and can be configured for other sovereign environments with parameter overrides.

| Cloud | Environment name | Portal URL | Status |
|-------|-----------------|------------|--------|
| Azure Commercial | `AzureCloud` | `portal.azure.com` | ✅ Fully supported |
| Azure US Government | `AzureUSGovernment` | `portal.azure.us` | ✅ Fully supported |
| Azure China (21Vianet) | `AzureChinaCloud` | `portal.azure.cn` | ✅ Fully supported |

> | Other sovereign clouds | *(verify with your environment)* | *(verify with your environment)* | ⚠️ Supported with parameter overrides |

Reviewer: Where is the system of record for "Environment name"? We don't include "US" in Azure Gov, so I'm questioning that column. What is the purpose of that column at all? How will it be used? I would recomment getting rid of it unless we explicitly need it.
```suggestion
| Cloud | Portal URL | Status |
|-------|------------|--------|
| Azure Commercial | `portal.azure.com` | ✅ Fully supported |
| Azure Government | `portal.azure.us` | ✅ Fully supported |
| Azure China | `portal.azure.cn` | ✅ Fully supported |
| Others | *(verify with your environment)* | ⚠️ Supported with parameter overrides |
```

Fwiw, I don't actually know what value this table brings. Everything is supported the same way, right?

> [!NOTE]
> Some sovereign cloud environment names, DNS suffixes, and portal URLs are not published in public Microsoft documentation. Verify all endpoints against your target environment before deploying.

<br>

> ## Step 1: Build the template

Reviewer: Why are we including compilation instructions? I don't think this belongs in MS Learn. If we need to fix something for other clouds, we should fix it outright and not force the use of internal build scripts.

FinOps hubs include a build script that compiles the Bicep template and configures the dashboard. The `-PortalUrl` parameter sets the portal URL used in the 27 feedback links in `dashboard.json`. Build output lands in the `release/finops-hub/` folder.

### [PowerShell](#tab/powershell)

Run once on any workstation with the Bicep CLI installed:

```powershell
# Azure Commercial (default)
./src/scripts/Build-Toolkit -Template finops-hub

# Azure US Government
./src/scripts/Build-Toolkit -Template finops-hub -PortalUrl "https://portal.azure.us"

# Azure China (21Vianet)
./src/scripts/Build-Toolkit -Template finops-hub -PortalUrl "https://portal.azure.cn"

# Other sovereign clouds
./src/scripts/Build-Toolkit -Template finops-hub -PortalUrl "https://<your-portal-url>"
```

### [Manual](#tab/manual)

If you don't have a build environment, you can deploy the templates directly from the source repository. The dashboard feedback links default to the Azure Commercial portal URL. To update feedback links for your cloud, edit the `clusterUri` and portal URLs in `dashboard.json` after importing it into Azure Data Explorer.

---

<br>

> ## Step 2: Prepare open data

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of this approach. I would rather see us add support for disconnected deployments than to give them manual steps people will most likely get wrong. This would require actually changing the template anyway, so I don't think this is adequately covering what's needed.
